Add build and tryit tools (#15)
wso2/docs-ballerina-visual-studio-code-plugin: en/docs/build-and-run/tryit-tools/graphql-tool.md

# Try GraphQL services with Ballerina

> GraphQL is an open-source data query and manipulation language for APIs. While you develop an GraphQL service, you need to try it and debug it to check how it works. The Ballerina VS Code plugin provides the GraphQL Try it view, which gives the ability to try GraphQL services within VS Code instead of using any third-party software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GraphQL is an open-source data querying and manipulation language for APIs. While you develop a GraphQL service, you need to try it and debug it to check how it works. The Ballerina VS Code extension provides the GraphQL Try it view, which gives the ability to try GraphQL services within VS Code instead of using any third-party software.
```

## Write the GraphQL service
Add the code below to the `main.bal` file.
```ballerina
import ballerina/graphql;

# A service representing a network-accessible GraphQL API.
service / on new graphql:Listener(8090) {

    # A resource for generating greetings.
    # + name - the input string name
    # + return - string name with greeting message or error
    resource function get greeting(string name) returns string|error {
        // Send a response back to the caller.
        if name is "" {
            return error("name should not be empty!");
        }
        return "Hello, " + name;
    }
}
    
```

## Try the GraphQL service

> Once you add the above function, the VS Code plugin will display a code lens called **Try it** on top of the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you add the above function, the VS Code extension will display a code lens called **Try it** on top of the service.
```

> Once you add the above function, the VS Code extension will display a code lens called **Try it** on top of the service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you add the above function, the VS Code extension will display a CodeLens called **Try it** on top of the service.
```

> 1. Click the **Run** code lens to run the program. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Run** CodeLens to run the program. 
```

>     This opens the terminal and start running the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This opens the terminal and starts running the service.
```

</br>

> 2. Click the **Try it** code lens to open the GraphQL Try it view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click the **Try it** CodeLens to open the GraphQL Try it view.
```

   >**Note:** The service must be in the running state to use GraphQL Try it view.

  <img src="../../img/graphql-codelenses.png" width="100%" />

</br>

3. Once the GraphQL view is opened, click **Explorer** to open the **Explorer** view.

>    >**Tip:** You can find available APIs from the opened side menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   >**Tip:** You can find the available APIs from the side menu that opens.
```

</br>

4. Select the APIs from the **Explorer** menu to try.
   >**Info:** This will automatically generate the payload in the editor. You can edit the payload and add the required parameters (e.g., type your name under the name parameter). **Prettify** will format the code for you.

</br>

5. Click **Run** to send the request.

>     The response gets displayed in the right-side window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The response is displayed in the right-side window.
```
